---
layout: post
title: "What I did in 2011"
---

TL;DR

Many things happened. Usual, cool, amazing, fucking awful. Anyway I think whatever happened to me made it possible for me to be like I'm now.

So, as an Apple fan, I got Macbook and iPhone this year. Before I used awkward linux box with separate installation of hackintosh, and ol' S40 nokia phone. I think my transition to Apple products made me more caring about simplicity and beauty.

As of my development background… 

This year I tried node.js. It's an interesting technology, though I haven't really made something exciting with it. After node (and a bit before), I started caring about elegant javascript. I think you know what is was -- it was CoffeeScript. So amazing thing.

Then, I think I learned some C, mostly in one day. That day was the day when they forced me to go to horrible local programming olympiad. The options was (doh…) Pascal, Delphi and C/C++. So because of my hate to Pascal-like languages, I used C on the olympiad. And guess what? In less than 3hrs I learned preprocessor macros, usual loops (I used to `.each` in Ruby that much, so I really knew usual loops bad), some pointers and structures. I think some day I will seriously give C some time to learn the Lingua Franco of the development.

By the way, I also tried Clojure (thanks @myfreeweb for suggestion). It's probably a cool thing, though I know only very, very basic Clojure, and still have no idea when functional programming is better than object-oriented. But… I'm really afraid of Java interop of Clojure. I don't know, in my opinion Java is a huge and chaos-aware thing with bad organization and broken logic.

I think I became more language- or technology-agnostic, more polyglot. Well, I still hate PHP either.

Recent day, I also try to give a fuck about web development, web standards and cool CSS3 things. I think it's an incredible and must-know field these days.

This year was gorgeous in my development and learnings. However this year was too bad for many famous IT people. We'll miss you Steve, John McCarthy and others.

This year was important for me at all. I changed my mind about many things and really got addicted to Twitter :/

Bye 2011 and thanks for everything.